# AI UGC V3 - KLING 3.0

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_U7aT7cNadhjRYKhW3_7so_KBWCgK7NyboRrrl8QfII/

AI UGC V3 - KLING 3.0
Building High-Converting AI UGC (Step-by-Step)




IMPORTANT: READ ALL THE V1 AI UGC COURSE SO YOU HAVE AN UNDERSTANDING OF HOW EVERYTHING WORKS TOGETHER
Building Your Ultimate Weapon 
This module teaches you how to use gemini / claude and turn it into a full pipeline that generates complete, high-converting UGC video using Kling 3.0.


The Step-by-Step Process


Step 1: Forcing an LLM to follow our master prompt.


You need to prime Claude/Gemini to act as a high-level marketing strategist before it writes a single word.


Go to Claude/Gemini and paste this for the first prompt:
"I am going to send you a Mega Manual on how to create AI UGCs, along with my brand and product information. I need you to act as a master marketing and consumer psychology expert. You will analyze my brand, the product, the best target audiences, and their deepest pain points and needs so we can create highly converting scripts and videos.
IMPORTANT: Do NOT generate any scripts or manuals yet. Just soak in the information, analyze it as deeply as possible, and reply with 'OK, I am ready' when you are prepared to replicate or create AI UGC manuals."




Step 2: Paste the Newest Master-Prompt in the Instructions field


1. Upload this Master Prompt
THE UNIVERSAL UGC MASTER PROMPT (COPY & PASTE)

2. upload Your Brand Info: Paste your website copy, product mechanisms, and even upload screenshots of your product/website.
Result: Claude/Gemini will analyze the psychology of your buyers, lock in the prompt rules, and simply reply: "OK, I am ready."
STEP 3: CREATING THE CONCEPT


The Process is simple.


Claude/Gemini is now fully trained on your product and the exact prompt structure. It is time to tell it what kind of video to make.


Now we will give claude / gemini our concept:
* REPLICATE : Upload a viral video (or paste a link/transcript) and say 

“Help me clone this video exactly like it is scene by scene. extract raw script in one block, exact actions she's doing, the style of video (ugc tiktok style etc). the way she's talking, how the character looks. every different scene is 100% the same, do not miss anything. 

follow my master prompt to do everything.”

* TEXT-TO-VIDEO: Tell it exactly what you want: "Give me a manual for a 2-person podcast interview," or "Give me a manual for a whiteboard cardboard reveal," or "Create a raw street interview.":
If you’re using TEXT-TO-VIDEO it's good if you give claude or gemini a prompt that has worked for you as a reference.
That way it knows what works and what doesn’t. 


Now you can use kie to generate the video as we did before.


STEP 4: GENERATION (THE EXECUTION)


Now you take the prompt and bring it to life.


   1. Generate First Frames (Nano Banana 2 / pro):  Take the image prompts from the response of your prompt.
   2. Animate the Scenes (Kling 3.0)


For kling 3 you can use multiple places for generating videos, i like to use the official platform:

https://app.klingai.com/global/
(use self-referring mode for kling to get cheaper prices, ask on discord group for explanation, can’t mention it here for legal reasons)
Or 


kie.ai/